we are here today to discuss two books  that from my perspective i have already  published this one already exists on  paper future of an illusion quite some  time ago when i hit  when i clicked the button  that publishes a book in the 21st  century i put out an invitation to my  audience to send in questions to send in  arguments to send in objections  to send in corrections quite a few typos  were correct  [Laughter]  and today we are going to do the q a  we're going to answer those questions  about this book i'm also going to open  the video with a reading  the next book to come out after this you  will notice this is quite a slim volume  it costs about four us dollars it costs  about 350 in europe it is a very very  cheap book a lot of entertainment value  and about 120 pages  the other book yeah i think 124.  the other book we're here to talk about  today  which i have already  made the final click of the mouse button  to publish but that it is impossible for  you to have in your hands as of this  moment is called no more manifestos and  that is over 630  pages so that's a much heavier tome  to sink your teeth into uh so i'm going  to read you  a selection  an excerpt i suppose from  no more manifestos and then i'm going to  answer your questions in theory about  either book or about any of the ideas  this raises for you i'll just mention  that the process of writing these two  books took up over two years of my life  writing this shorter volume probably  delayed the completion of no more  manifestos by six months although it was  a delightful process to go through as a  writer  i had from my perspective  finished no more manifestos and simply  needed to go through and do a final  rereading and revision to make minor  changes and corrections and i got one  message from one supporter on patreon  who said reasonably enough look  given that no more manifestos is really  a book about political philosophy that  barely mentions veganism why don't you  write a separate book  dealing with the  the vegan angle the vegan issue uh  dealing with vegan politic  great idea so i stopped everything i was  doing and i effectively took a vacation  from writing one book to write another  and the relationship between the two  books is thus for me very interesting  going back and rereading them and enough  time has passed  you know that you  yes i'm always going to be reading it as  the author but you forget your own book  a little bit and then get to encounter  it new just as the months go by frankly  hasn't been years yet  i would say that the central philosophy  of no more manifestos it is expressed in  this book in a  much more abbreviated  [Laughter]  but much easier to understand form  so i can really imagine reading this  book first preparing you very well to  deal with the profounder aspects of no  more manifestos and also i can imagine  reading  no more manifestos first maybe you have  no interest in veganism or vegan  politics and then even if you've read no  more manifestos first reading this  afterward  then this will bring it into a much  sharper focus it's a much more succinct  statement of  what now  i do not write these books  so that they will  exist like a museum  exhibit on a shelf you know i'm not  producing a diorama to exist behind a a  glass wall  you know  the sense of urgency in all my youtube  videos and also in my writing comes to  the fact that i'm aware  of my own mortality  and yours and then within that span of  perhaps a century that you've got on  this earth if you're lucky how much more  limited your potential is to  change the world  change your life change yourself yes but  ultimately the difference we're going to  make on this planet and to bring it into  uh  even clearer relief what do you what are  you going to do in the next five years  you know when you put down this book  what now what next  so here you know in this very short book  of only 120 pages that yes it is partly  about vegan politics it's partly about  the meaning of life  and it's really the sense of urgency the  sense of passion is that you have to  live your life what are you going to do  with this philosophy moving forward what  are you going to do  [Music]  given that you have admitted to yourself  or accepted all the things that are very  hard to admit and accept about politics  that are uh discussed in this book in a  very trenchant  very passionate very convincing way okay  okay given that there were certain  illusions about politics we might have  had from childhood that we're letting go  of maybe certain illusions about  religion maybe certain relations maybe  certain illusions about philosophy too  you know  okay  what now what next so  that same message is to be found in no  more manifestos but as has already been  mentioned no more manifestos is not  a book about veganism  uh what is no more manifestos a book  about  it was created  in the ashes  literal and figurative  of the  armed rebellions that were taking place  in the street in the year 2020 the armed  uprisings that were  more or less loosely inspired by  police brutality especially in the death  of george floyd right  so  that moment in history that we all lived  through  i  i wanted to write a book in a response  to it but of course i cannot say that  it's a book about that or about that  alone  several chapters of the book are  specifically and narrowly about police  brutality several chapters are  specifically and narrowly  about  the brutality of american police against  black people within the united states of  america there's a whole the whole world  is our canvas here guys that's not the  only thing the book's about it's not the  only thing i'm i'm concerned about and  you do get some case studies discussed  in quite a bit of detail about what  happens when the police get caught  how do the police try to cover up these  crimes what happens when they're dragged  into court  the state level court system the federal  level court system and um  what human rights means in practice in  this case that is that is one element of  the book  i stood at a very strange crossroads  at the time  george floyd died i did actually have  one  friend who was living  within earshot  of the explosions and  gunshots going off  so  the thought certainly crossed my mind  just to go as a youtuber as a journalist  if you like buy an airplane ticket and  go and be there as the story unfolded as  significant part of that city was was  burned down now you know obviously for  you guys in the audience now it's kind  of easy to say well no great loss  i mean certainly there were a lot of  other youtubers there  who um you know smelled the ashes so to  speak and uh saw those things unfold you  know of course though  it gnaws at you a bit in retrospect and  it haunted me at the time  that i could have been there i could  have been holding the camera in the  microphone i could have asked some  questions i could have brought my own  perspective to it yeah  the border was closed so you couldn't oh  yes  yes from from page one of the book  though that's also true so melissa  mentioned something i i laughed because  that shows you know how how these kinds  of things seems like a minor detail now  in retrospect but it was it was all  important at the time melissa reminds me  that at that time we could not cross the  border between the united states and  canada so  year 2019 2020 2021 that's right so what  yeah so actually that's right there were  there were barriers to travel so well so  babe i'd forgotten that i forgot that it  was a purely hypothetical question of  whether or not i went to the states to  witness the the well it would be  unlikely to get there while the riots  were going on but at least i could have  gotten there in the immediate aftermath  of rides um  anyway yeah so you know a lot of us have  memories that way also connected to  september 11th 2001 where exactly you  were and  where you could have gone it could have  been i've already made a youtube video  talking without my autobiography but  there are those moments in life where  you think so anyway given that  context  yeah so  just figuring that out so it really was  just wistful thinking on my part that i  could have gone there because  international travel was temporarily  completely impossible  [Laughter]  um  you know are you going to write a short  book that just talks about one issue in  a shallow way or are you going to write  a really profound book that brings  together  basically everything you have to say  about political philosophy  past present and future so first the  first choice i made was option two there  you know i really  this is this was the first book i had  written for an adult audience i've  written children's story books many of  you know about that in the past  um  [Music]  and you know of course you could have a  plan of saying okay i'm just going to  write a short book on one topic now and  then another book and another book but i  really felt like well i've left this off  until my 40s to write a book  i could have written a book in my 20s i  could have written a book on political  philosophy when i was 23 would have been  different would have been memorable and  i believe i have files on my hard drive  in that period i i could tell you quite  accurately what my political philosophy  was like in my my twenties because i  still have it on my hard drive some of  my ex-girlfriends i don't know if  they're in the audience right now some  of my ex-girlfriends remember what my  what i had to say about politics in my  20s obviously if i published a book at  23 or at 33  very different from what i'm now able to  bring together  so much research experience uh so many  different walks of life at age 43 so  that's the first sort of cross  sort of fork in the road sorry the first  sort of decision you have to make is um  [Music]  am i going to write something short and  brief and publish immediately on just  one topic narrowly defined or am i going  to write something  broad and deep and profound  um  and you know if you guys if in case of  the first video you've ever seen on my  channel i have a background in buddhist  philosophy i in this book uh within the  first couple pages it shows actually  buddhist philosophy so it's a nice  symmetry if you read this one first this  opens talking about what is philosophy  the other book no more manifestos closes  talking about his philosophy there's  some discussion about his philosophy and  just the last few pages there um but you  know i have a background in the history  of  china history of india history of  thailand laos cambodia the political  histories i can draw on well japan i can  make a long list but obviously europe  they go far beyond the american  experience they go far beyond the  canadian experience and so on so it was  bringing this together uh in an  analytical way  the many different kind of areas of  research i  effectively devoted my life to  and then the second fork in the road was  um the manuscript was substantively  finished it was mostly finished in  january of 2021  so i wrote with tremendous passion and  tremendous energy a lot of the chapters  the first draft was written in one day  and they're long profound chapters  but um  that's  energetic passionate quality you know  because initially i thought was i wanted  to publish during calendar year 2020.  that's why i met so it's january uh  of a certain everything everything was  substantially finished so there's this  very rambunctious passionate kind of  kind of energy throughout the whole book  my opinion  but  uh when you write that rapidly also that  first draft was sloppy i said melissa  did a proofreading two people read the  whole book beginning to end melissa and  ods oliver shields if you guys subscribe  to me on patreon you know who oliver is  don't i don't think anyone else has read  the whole thing and neither of you have  read the finished text actually as it  turned out probably because i i didn't  want to impose too much on their time i  did not turn around to oliver and say  hey can you read more than 600 pages of  text you know  um  but yeah you know i said to melissa when  i was doing the final revisions  especially to the earliest chapters in  the book was like wow you know  you must really be in love with me to be  able to follow the argument of this  early draft because the first draft was  written so quickly and to some extent so  sloppily  sometimes it left between ideas it left  between points and i do think melissa  understood it melissa is in love with me  melissa talks to me a lot about politics  she she would know me well enough to  know where i was going with the thought  and then understand why i'm making the  next point but in the revision those  chapters became longer and they became  more clearly explained  something something lost there too  because it's true it's less poetic but  it's certainly more comprehensible than  the final draft so yeah um  sam walsh asks were you working non-stop  over the past few days doing final  tweaks i feel i've been working non-stop  for two years on this but i'm you know  it's it's been a lot of work the only  the only time i stopped was to write a  separate book  oh well right the reading and research  that i include that as part of the the  work in two years the amount i did a  huge amount of reading for this book  and it's part of the revisions process  um  so yeah the the next  fourth of the number came to the next  strategic decision i had to come to was  given that the book was largely complete  as of december 2020 or january 2021  so like okay i can take this with all  its errors and  defects in lacuna and just scrape  together and get on the internet now but  get it published as a book now  or  and the the choice the decision was or  am i going to go much further and be  much more robust in my research and  reflections on the history of the  american revolution the creation of the  american constitution  so in the first draft of the book and uh  sorry keep in mind  history of american revolution history  of american constitution  i was already studying that when i was  19 years old 18 19 20 i already had a  research interest  it frankly if you care about politics it  is hard to be ignorant of the american  constitution it's so massive  [Music]  well melissa you will remember this when  i was writing the book  i said to you several times early on i'm  now writing about things i haven't  really thought about or had a verbal  conversation with someone about since i  was like 21 years old like some of them  because i could remember specific  conversations with friends  maybe as late as 23 or something but you  know  a lot of it 18 19 20. you know it was  that was when i did that research and  you guys can guess this about me if you  didn't know  part of the decision to do so much  research on the political history of  india political history of china and  then cambodia laos thailand these other  countries in asia  um was my sense of dissatisfaction with  the american constitutional tradition my  sense of  dissatisfaction with the whole western  you know european and colonial  democratic tradition and indeed that's  also why i didn't learn latin i didn't  learn greek i started working on  languages like pali pali is related to  sanskrit if you've never heard it before  but you know paulie and then cambodian  lotion burmese cinelies and this group  of languages that very few men ever ever  learn and then eventually after that  korean ojibwe so all this work all this  research in different areas  but yeah um  my feeling as a young man my feeling  around age 21 or 23 was that i knew  everything that was worth knowing about  the american uh revolution and  it's certainly very easy to feel  that the french revolution is where the  important and profound questions got  asked rather than the american  revolution and then and when you know  the french revolution which i did i'm  starting as a teenager i knew a lot  about the french revolution i still know  a lot of different children and then you  know  the ancient greek and ancient roman  material right  it's easy to  trivialize the american  revolution the american constitution  because you feel like okay i'm dealing  with what's really profound over here  with aristotle thucydides  xenophon we can list off all these names  whether ancient greek origin or both and  then on the other hand you have the put  it this way these starkly modern  political questions that are raised by  the french revolution with the french  revolution  you're you're looking at the same  questions raised by mao zedong you're  looking at the same questions raised by  the rise and fall of communism and  you're very much looking at the french  revolution you're so much looking at  questions that are still being raised by  protesters in the streets in the year  2020 so at first and for me as an  immature young man teenager in my 20s  it's certainly easy to kind of sneer at  just how eccentric and bizarre the the  founding fathers were as people  um you know thomas jefferson is a really  weird guy  it's just crazy i'm sorry what most of  you know about  thomas jefferson it  does show what a weird and crazy guy was  thomas jefferson and what he says about  black people  and slaves and at the same time  his own children are partly black he's  having sex with his slaves he's this  really weird guy  sorry i'm not going to get into a long  discourse on thomas jefferson here  you know  uh but you know if you think robespierre  is eccentric if you think napoleon is  eccentric or something you look at this  history written by these strange guys  and there's this very very strange sense  in which the philosophical debates at  the founding of the american  constitution they seem to have nothing  to do with the rest of the history of  the world  yeah i was just gonna say  the fact that your whole political  philosophy has been condensed into this  600 page book um condensed  condensed into only 600 patients yeah  it just comes as a surprise to me um  because when we first got together i  wouldn't have imagined that a book that  you would publish would be about the  american revolution or  about the american revolution but that  you'd uh research so much about yeah  because but look yeah the book is about  the immigrants  a huge a huge part of the book you know  but so as i'm describing here just the  audience  you know i think you can see that what  i'm trying to say to you is it began  with these questions about police  brutality about the justice system in  america however you want to put it  so you know not not just policing the  prisons the courts law itself the  constitution itself and then that  naturally  expands into dealing with the origins of  the problem in the american revolution  and writing the constitution deal with  it in a really profound way and also to  deal with the knock-on consequence of  this because the the american  constitution has influenced every  written constitution in every other  country on planet earth yes  there's just the point  you know four years ago five years ago i  really wouldn't have anticipated that  this would be a research interest you  know and if you were to have gotten a  master's degree i would i really thought  it would be like you would specialize in  you know asian history and sure  somewhere in southeast asia you'd write  a book about but uh political philosophy  in china or japan or thailand or laos or  cambodia or something right but  personally you know  i'm an american citizen so it it  it's very uh  it's been very educational for me as  i've been researching these different um  the founding fathers and and just how  the process happened it's it's yeah i  think  it i see how it's influenced the whole  rest of the world the the american  constitution that's right and it's just  so funny to understand more about like  the origins of it well okay  you want to switch up i'll just say you  know um  obviously i also i grew up in a family  that was forever assailing and  complaining about american imperialism  now  my point here is not to say and now i'm  100 110 in favor of american burialism  but let's get real you know again i used  to live in cambodia i have real  experience with this  in the absence  of american imperialism  would japan be a democracy today  in the absence of american imperialism  would south korea be a democracy today  in the absence of american imperialism  would taiwan  be a democracy today and now conversely  if we had just a little bit more  american imperialism you know  all of china could be a democracy today  probably democracy very similar to south  korea and taiwan probably maybe a little  bit different maybe not you know  probably not that different from what we  have in taiwan everyone in communist  china would be  enjoying the day and it gets worse guys  it gets more challenging where i'm going  here because you know we everyone wants  to be morally opposed to imperialism it  certainly seems very very easy to wrap  yourself in the morally superior flag of  anti-imperialism  india  if india had not been conquered  by the united kingdom by the british  do you think india would be focusing  today now  look as you know there are reasons why  why american imperialism is remembered  and regarded so negatively  afghanistan and you know very much the  the memory of afghanistan it's a huge  part of both books  talk about kind of the emotional context  for both these books what what shake  them but you know the um  and with the grinding sense of  inevitable defeat in afghanistan you  know as it unfolds very much part of  this book  the first  page or two i think i think it might be  on page one  of no more manifestos it says yeah this  was written in a period of time that's  now very hard for any of us to remember  a period of time when we thought  coronavirus was going to be over within  a few months and when we thought the war  in afghanistan was going to go on  forever was going to go on for another  10 years you know  we were wrong on both counts you know  coronavirus was going to instead go on  and on and the afghan war was kind of  coming to a sudden  climactic conclusion if you want  whether it's climactic or any climactic  it's a it's a matter of uh matter of  perspective  um  yeah so look i just say  afghanistan  vietnam  you know even look at the reality of  mexico today the caribbean south america  haiti history of american imperialism in  haiti  um  the philippines  there are a lot of places where we can  take american imperialism and really  examine what's wrong with it and what's  right with it so on and so forth  but you know  without american imperialism  do you believe germany  would be a democracy today how about  france  you know  so we're going to talk about democracy  and american imperialism yes there is  there is no document more important than  the american constitution there is no  revolution more important the american  revolution for the whole world it's  unbelievably important for japan for  cambodia for canada for france for the  whole world the american revolution  american constitution had influenced  everyone  but as i've already said  for me as a young man in my 20s  it's remarkable because  the american revolution is the most  alien of all  it is the hardest to understand even  though american culture is the most  familiar  just real briefly  um  the french revolution  when you describe the status quo part b  when you describe the status quo ante  when you describe you know the pieces on  the chess board before the  civil war begins it's very easy to  understand you understand what the two  sides are that are facing off you  understand what they're trying to win  and what they're trying to lose like  it's it's real clear and it's very easy  to sympathize with people on on each and  every side  in the french revolution i'm just saying  this honestly you know of course on the  one hand you can sympathize with the  poor oppressed farmer who wants to have  a revolution so we can have democracy  and equality you can you can certainly  sympathize with the atheist who really  wants to fight against the power of the  catholic church it's a huge part of the  french revolution right again  the american revolution is not like this  just for it's it's totally different  well you have to understand right but  you know the more you read about the  french revolution  you may also start to sympathize with  people who supported the royal family on  point of honor where just the sheer  corruption  of the jacobins of the french word this  was a really corrupt and violent and in  some ways evil regime they created and  where you can start to sympathize with  some of the loyalists royalists  anti-revolutionary  counter-revolutionaries who said no they  wanted to stand to have a society built  on an honor honor and dignity they that  they represented a higher standard of  morality that they were willing to fight  for  um so you know as you say once you get  in kind of the biographies of particular  men who put their life on the line and  fought and died  if you start to study the french  revolution you might be surprised how  often you sympathize with people on the  counter revolutionary  and frankly pro-aristic pro-aristocrat  side of the war because that's what it  was yes here's a very simple way to  summarize the french revolution  it was the war for the future of  aristocracy  france had been  ruled by aristocrats the whole society  was was an aristocratic side it was  defined and controlled by aristocracy an  aristocracy that had evolved from the  dark ages into the renaissance i mean it  had it it had evolved and adapted a  little bit it wasn't the same as it was  500 years earlier this this kind of  thing  um but this was a war for aristocracy  which side are you on and either you're  fighting for the aristocrats or you're  fighting against them so the french  revolution is very easy to understand  and it's very easy to conceptualize  in parallel to  the russian revolution that creates the  communist dictatorship of lenin  the  communist revolution in china they  create the dictatorship of mao zedong  and they're kind of you can look at your  own society here i am sitting here in  canada and it's very easy to take the  kind of logic of the french revolution  and apply it to the situation i'm in now  you know um and again even my youtube  channel ultimately is an illusion of  this do you guys know what the meaning  of about this yell is  um  [Music]  so yeah  there's this kind of clarity  to the analytical and moral significance  of the french revolution  and the american revolution by contrast  when you're just setting up the pieces  on the chess board when you're just  describing the status quo ante where  you're just trying to get your head  around and or trying to sincerely  communicate to someone else  what are we fighting for  what is there to win what is there to  lose here  it's it's very hard to understand and  now that is partly  because of propaganda it is partly  because of lies and misrepresentation  partly there's also it's propaganda  about the history of france history all  these countries have propagand but you  know in the american case you're  starting with something that's very very  hard to understand  propaganda makes it harder  um  i'm surprised these questions  you people don't actually watch my  videos  someone asked are you moving back to  thailand i i'm going back to thailand  i'm not going to live there permanently  it's just about i get fan mail like that  too i got family they're saying oh hey  now that you're in thailand i know  you're busy but  you didn't actually watch the video  you haven't seen a lot of the videos  leading up to this but anyway  um  um  [Music]  i've effectively derailed my own  discussion here so um  just in understanding  why the american revolution happened  this is the thing once you get past this  sort of distorting intentionally and  unintentionally distorting layer of  propaganda and start dealing with the  primary sources itself it's still  utterly baffling i mean i can really say  in the last five years  i learned to fully understand what  happened in the american revolution  writing the constitution and it began  melissa was there with me it began with  my studying the history of the english  civil war  so coming out of my teens and twenties i  kind of had a list of things to read in  the back of my mind  things that yeah  i believe so yeah yeah yeah that's right  um  anyway i had a list of things to read  about and  i was aware i'd never found the time to  really read the history of what happened  with the english civil war so this is  the english civil war that temporarily  tears down the monarchy  and ends up establishing the  dictatorship of a guy named oliver  cromwell so as with a lot of revolutions  they thought they were getting democracy  and they ended up with something that  was democratic in name only  yeah  i tell them  melissa counts as a member of the  audience here too something i said  correct  anyway um  this book the 600 page book no more  manifestos it  it says again and again because it's  really true that  most of the ideological  debates  that were  you know  setting the stage for they were defining  the sides opposing each other in the  american revolution those debates began  the definition of those ideologies  that that it really was this continuous  tradition um in uh the thirteen colonies  there's a continuous tradition of of  political debate from the english civil  war through to the writing of the  american constitution  so yeah about starting with five years  ago i really started to understand the  history of the united states in a very  different way because i filled in this  gap in my historical knowledge the  chapter coming 130 years before it but  still very much its direct prequel the  history of what happened in the english  civil war  so  anyway look i wasn't planning to make  this general lecture about uh american  revolution  the meaning of the word republic  and  i remind you  when you're looking at the american  revolution and the french revolution  which one comes first the american  revolution comes first i have to  remember in terms of cause and effect  but you know well  what is a republic  remarkably because of the legacy of  english civil war america was  full of people willing to fight and die  for the republic  and none of them agreed  on the meaning of that word nobody  really knew what a republic was but they  knew they were going to fight and die  for it right  now the book again it's a long book it's  600 pages so we get to delve into all of  this yes in part  simply the brief period in the history  of england when they tore down the  monarchy and declared themselves to be a  republic a parliamentary republic what a  concept you know what what does that  really mean a parliamentary republic  um  sure this this starts the ball rolling  but there are several other really  interesting antecedents including the  revolution in corsica  this is an island where people have a  revolution kick out the political  leaders who are there and declare  themselves a republic and write a new  constitution  starting from a blank sheet of paper  so  this very directly and powerfully  prefigures and forms and influences uh  what's going to happen in american  revolution but i've made several um live  streams recently that discuss issues in  the history of the revolution history of  writing the constitution at great length  and that of course made it much easier  to write the book i don't think many  authors have the luxury that i've had of  being able to sit down and  discuss their ideas with an audience  sometimes for three hours or something  let's sit down and really talk this  through  but um the book  i know it sounds ridiculous to say this  but both of the books including even  this short book  the material that's in here is not on  the youtube channel it's really not um  what you will find in the pages of this  book  uh it is not repeating things you've  already heard on the youtube channel and  on the other hand no more manifestos  even though someone's had a three-hour  discussion about those issues and  sometimes i read hundreds of pages about  those issues i think at most you get  kind of one very concise paragraph  corresponding to a lot of those in-depth  discussions  so there is a tremendous power of  concision that way despite the fact the  book ends up being 600 pages because it  covers so much history and there is  simply a lot of political philosophizing  to do so another good good question guys  oh so one of the other problems is just  i think the the most controversial  chapter in this book we already did a  live stream discussing so probably the  most questions would have been about the  chapter on the philosophy of compassion  what is compassion and we already did  record a discussion it was pretty much  that day it was kind of the same day i'd  shared that chapter um just as a one  chapter text file with supporters on on  patreon i i went into a q a and answered  not so much the questions as the  incredulity and hostility of my audience  but what i have to say about the foster  compassion so that that's one issue that  branched off from the book  into a youtube video before the book was  published or the only show before frida  asks who drew the cover  so frida you ordered your copy of the  book quite recently so one of the  differences between the editions of the  book  i i have the first edition this does not  name the artist who drew the cover  because she didn't want to be named we  talked about this a long time ago and  then when she saw the book she changed  her mind she was like hey i want my name  in the book  it's great of course  so depending on  the date when you offer ordered this if  you bought it the moment it was  published when it first came out you get  a copy of the book that doesn't name the  the artist i think it's such a long time  ago but i forget what her concern was it  was just internet trolls or stalkers you  know  i'm not sure i want my name on this  because you know  um it'll somehow bring unwanted  internet harassment into her life or  something but then when the book was  done she didn't want her name on it so i  forget what it was  there was maybe a two week window of  opportunity or something but you get the  book without the artist's name on it but  now when you get it it says cover  illustration by you get the uh you get  the citation  great question big smoke asks any chance  of tracking down joe best and  challenging him to a cage match so i  i've put up the question my other video  if anyone knows anybody in thailand for  me to meet up with and nobody does um  thailand for the past two years has had  about one percent  as much tourism as they usually have so  it's about a 99 reduction in tourism  and when i'm there will not have  recovered yet so i do not know i think  the number of  the number of non-thai people in the  streets the number of white people in  the streets and so on will be very close  to zero unlike any other time i've been  in town i assume won't quite be a ghost  town but i assume you know uh yeah  but sure if you guys want to set me up  with the cage match by all means  okay so i'm going to read you guys an  excerpt from um  no more manifestos a book that from my  perspective i have clicked to publish on  amazon but is not uh available yet um  perhaps within the next 12 hours perhaps  the next six hours last time it only  took a couple of hours they just do a  quick uh censorship  uh check make sure there's no nudity in  the book or something i suppose i don't  even know maybe they do allow nudity  whatever is they don't allow but they do  like youtube they do a quick censorship  and that's it anyway so we're gonna do a  quick reading from the the uh the book  that i have published but that you  cannot have read yet  and then guys  if you have something intelligent to say  if you have an intelligent question to  ask rub your uh  rub your pieces of firewood together rub  your kindling together and try to come  up with a spark because you're gonna  have the opportunity to say something or  ask something intelligent i do have a  list of questions that i've received by  via email in writing previously and i  will go through that list of questions  about this book  not the other book here we go  with the passage of time  our excuses for things become more  important than the real reasons for them  no one are unknown  our motivations in misrepresenting a  historical event are a problem that  needs to be dealt with here and now  whereas the events themselves and the  motivations that first set them in  motion diminish in size as they come  closer to the horizon  escaping step by step from the immediacy  of real politics to the safer distance  of real of pure philosophy  slavery is over  excuses for slavery are with us still  overcoming the excuses is a political  struggle  but understanding slavery itself  now  is increasingly just a matter of  philosophy  the real history of the american  constitution matters very little  whereas its mythology is of tremendous  importance  the first only matters in as much as it  could help to dispel the second  and even so tremendous creativity is  needed to make it matter  as everyone beholds the bare facts with  indifference  the vast majority of us will not have  our minds changed by the facts  we will have our minds changed by  fiction  one fable of the constitution will be  challenged by another so that we may  make progress without ever progressing  from lies to truth  of the millions of people still making  excuses for slavery a terrifyingly tiny  minority will change their minds by  taking an interest in the historical  facts  of those who do the majority will seek  out biased sources and read them in a  biased manner  in a biased manner  they will use what we call critical  thinking to selectively support one  delusion or another with the presumption  that whatever interpretation is most  flattering to their ideology is also the  most factual  this is a greeting familiar pattern in  the formation of personal political  identity  although this is stereotypically  associated with extremists making  excuses for communism fascism etc the  mentality is not much different from the  mainstream where it is less visible less  confrontational and therefore is even  less susceptible to change  for the vast majority of us and for the  vast majority of our political  convictions that kind of change is not a  process of giving up our excuses to  embrace the truth found in facts  instead what changes our minds is seeing  the consequences of the excuses we've  made  and then comparing one set of excuses to  another  considering other myths and imagining  how our identity would change if we were  to behave as if they were true  when the communist becomes contemptible  in his own eyes  and starts to feel that his excuses that  he has practiced and put on display a  hundred times before are things he  should be ashamed to say  it is not his knowledge of any  particular fact that has changed  it is him  he changed and so he starts to seek out  new facts and new interpretations to  suit himself  which was the root of the problem in the  first place  but before he was a different sort of  man  living with a different set of excuses  so  this is obviously an excerpt from a  chapter late in the book this is not  page one of chapter one  and  the emphasis i'm placing here is not on  a contrast between truth and fiction i'm  not saying to you everyone else lies to  you about the history of the american  revolution everyone else lies to you  about the american constitution and i'm  going to give you the truth  however i do think the book taken as a  whole apart from being a statement of my  own political philosophy i do think it  gives you a really nuanced really robust  understanding of what happened and why  i've  i know even more that's not in the book  i mean the book is not meant to be  because i have some really long books  here on this desk that went on for  hundreds and hundreds of pages um it's  not sort of a laundry list of factoids  and details about the american english  but what i am telling you uh somewhat  poetically in this uh this part of this  excerpt from the book  is that what i'm interested in doing is  challenging the mythology you know  challenging the sort of strange set of  excuses and half truths that we live  with  about the american revolution and for a  very clear purpose  um  the vast majority of people reading this  book are are powerless individuals  but exactly what i want to get at is how  we're going to change the world which in  an utterly non-corny sense does begin  with changing yourself  probably you guys have i mean any of you  in the audience you have probably had  some  friend or relative some brother or  sister or cousin  who really wanted to change the world  many many examples from people i've  known in my own life uh come to mind  sorry i'll give you a particular example  i knew a woman who had been a marketing  executive she worked in the advertising  industry  and she wanted to start a foundation and  change the world veganism veganism and  ecology these issues were her or her  issues  and you know  what's what's the most polite way to  possibly say to someone  it ain't you  you are the wrong person for this job  and then take a step beyond that what if  what you really have to say to this  person is  you aren't the right person to do this  yet  you aren't the right person do this now  like you've chosen a role for yourself  and you don't realize how many years of  preparation you'll need before you can  before you can play it your background  in marketing and advertising has not in  any way prepared you to play the role of  political leadership you're you're  putting yourself into so that particular  woman  right at the start of her project she  had a lot of money she burned through  her whole budget budget she bought huge  advertisements by the side of the  highway  and i imagine i don't know this but i  imagine because of her background in  advertising she got a good price i mean  she knew people in advertising she  probably i'm not saying she got it for  free or something she probably knew how  to get a good deal on getting  advertisements on the side of the  highway  and it was completely surreal and  completely stupid and completely  self-defeating  and i attempted to talk through with her  okay well strategically  like what's your message here and how  many people are there like you know  if you have a message on the side of the  highway that is interesting to fewer  than one of one in a million people  even if a million people drive their  cars down that highway this is not an  effective way to build your movement  this is crazy  and her message was less than one in a  million it was an incredibly niche  message and you know i was trying to  talk that through with her and i think  it's very telling i've already told you  she's a background in marketing she has  a background in advertising she should  be so well prepared from her  professional background this is this is  a middle-aged woman she's not a young  one  she should be so prepared to have  exactly that conversation right think  about what her job is all the time she's  got to sit down with an executive from a  toothpaste company say okay so what's  the message what's the market you're  trying to reach what's the audience  you're trying to like let's let's think  about this strategically  and  you know she just became furious and  frankly violent you know any attempt to  reason through with her  you know  like what are you doing and how is this  going to work of course it's no surprise  her whole movement failed and i would i  would love to know how much money she  wasted i saw her doing quite a number of  things that cost quite a lot of money  and she was not a poor person herself  and it's totally possible like 90 of the  money was her own money that's possible  fifty percent of the money was her own  money you know i i would assume she did  put some of her own money in the hat to  start this this political movement uh  rolling  so look i know it sounds like a corny  self-help book to say  you know the political change has to  start with you  these are real life  situations these are real life  scenarios um  you know maybe you don't have what it  takes  yet you know maybe you never will maybe  you've got to make some tough choices  that way you know in terms of how you  work with other people how you get  things done um you know if you're not  good at math you've got to learn to work  with someone who's good at math i sorry  i write children's stories books i don't  illustrate them i tried to take courses  an illustration here doing um  you